
Notes from conversation with Athila (Django Girls)

Machine learning is basically high-level statistics and we must have data to use it. There is no sense 
to start using a machine algorithm if we don't have enough data (imagine at least 10 000 rows in excel). 
Machine learning helps us to get information and make better decisions not the other way around.

Exmpl.
1. Step. When we have 10 000 rows in an excel table filled with answers by our mentors and mentee 
(Using OUOD - www.oneuponedown.org) - their preferences ordered from most desired to less desired, we can 
fill this data in an application such as TensorFlow (www.tensorflow.org).

2. Step. We create 3 sets of data. 
- In Set 1(Training Set), we have the values and create the best match. 
- In Set 2(Test Set), we have only inputs - not the value and test how close our outcome is to 'the best match' 
that we created in Set 1. At Set 2, we modify the parameters constantly in order to achieve the desired outcome. 
Here, we don't give the results but rather than, we test what the algorithm will give us and compare with 
Set 1(not very sure about this comparison thing!). 
- At Set 3(Verification Set), we have values that have never been seen or used before - new dataset. The values 
we put here will give us some outcome which we compare with our desired one (the best match) and see how close 
is to that. If we achieve 67% from 100%, we go back to Set 2 and do parameters adjustments, test the adjustments 
and go to Set 3 again - verify with new data.

There are many different algorithms created for different problems. We need to understand the problem that we 
have and then look at the different algorithms and understand what problem solve each algorithm. When we know this, 
we can pick the algorithm that solves problem similar to ours. 

To understand Machine Learning and make use of it, we need to have some previous knowledge in Linear Algebra 
(Polynomial, Combinatorics, Matrix,  etc. - Functions don't need that much) and then understand some High dimensional 
matrix (check out the course Machiene Learning by Andrew Ng - founder of www.deeplearning.ai,  in Coursera.org or 
NLP course by him again). 
