Source link: https://www.sandboxmodel.com/sites/default/files/Resources/papers/Learning_by_Doing_project_management_game.htm

GAMIFICATION AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT

Who likes to play games? Almost everyone. It’s fun and can bring a lot of benefit.

Gamification is the application of game principles in non-game contexts in attempts to improve engagement, productivity, and learning among others.

In their book, The Gameful World, Walz and Deterding stated: “Today, it is not people escaping into the virtual world of games, but games escaping into everyday life”.

The Gamification Revolution book by Zichermann and Linder states: “Gamification presents the best tool humanity has ever invented to create and sustain engagement in people. And the world’s best organizations—including Nike, SAP, Pearson, Salesforce, Cisco, United Airlines, Microsoft, Target, Sporty, Siemens, GE, IBM, McDonald’s, and hundreds more—are increasingly using these techniques to challenge competitors, reimagine their strategies, deliver unprecedented loyalty, and recruit, retain, and drive exceptional achievers and innovators.”

Every year, numerous projects are finished late, over budget, have failed to deliver scope or have even cancelled due to bad estimates, change in environment, insufficient resources, change in strategy, imprecise goals among others.

The need for experienced, well-trained project managers and teams is growing fast.  The number of undergraduate and graduate programs that offer project management courses is a good indication, as well as the number of books on project management and the number of case studies and other teaching materials developed around the globe.  Like many other fields, lectures, books and case studies are not enough and on-the-job training is an important part of the development of project management teams and project managers.

In some fields, sophisticated simulators replace on-the-job training or reduce it to a minimum while ensuring that the quality of training is the highest possible. This is common, for example, in training pilots who spend many hours on advanced simulators to save the high cost of actual flights. The cost of on-the-job training in this case should also include the cost of risks associated with mistakes frequently made by inexperienced pilots.  In a similar way, training project managers and team members on the job is expensive due to the high cost of mistakes done by inexperienced managers.

This fast development of theoretical knowledge, methodologies, tools and techniques for project management was not accompanied by a similar progress in developing teaching and training tools. Traditional teaching based on textbooks, articles and case studies is still the backbone of most training programs in this area. 

 